# D2: Look for Insider Threats

### Files: snort.py

### Description
In addition to securing your perimeter, it would probably be a good idea to double-check that you don't have any insiders working against The Lucky Lion, especially knowing Tacky Termite has occasionally used insiders to help them gain access to their victims' environments in the past.

One standard way to look for insider threats is to try to find sensitive data in places it shouldn't be. As a member of the Data Loss Prevention team, you could craft a Regular Expression (RegEx) to find TINs, or Tax Identification Numbers stored in unusual locations in The Lucky Lion's environment. The Lucky Lion is required to store TINs (only Social Security Numbers and Individual Taxpayer Identification Numbers) for gamblers who win more than $5000 (the regulations don't say how they have to store them, though!), though they should never appear anywhere other than the database that's intended to store them.

Normally, this task wouldn't be too hard, and there are lots of examples out there for TINs already. Unfortunately, the decision was made at one point to "encrypt" the TINs in a misguided attempt to increase security. Your job is now much more fun™!

The "encryption" method, which they've taken to calling Visionàry Algorithm Protecting IDs, involves modifying each digit using its corresponding value in the passphrase: LUCKYLION

```python
def vapid(tin, key="LUCKYLION") -> bytes:
    if isinstance(key, str):
        key = key.encode("ascii")
    if isinstance(tin, bytes):
        tin = tin.decode("ascii")
    key_len = len(key)
    ciphertext = []
    for idx, character in enumerate(tin):
        ciphertext.append(int(character) + key[idx % key_len])
    return bytes(ciphertext)
```

For example:

000000000 becomes LUCKYLION

111111111 becomes MVDLZMJPO


### Objective
Your mission is to write a RegEx that can find these obfuscated TINs so it can be deployed into various DLP sensors. This will ensure we'll be alerted if someone or something is exfiltrating sensitive customer data.

Fortunately, your coworker wrote a script (snort.py that you can use to test your RegEx against a representative dataset. Download the script and run it with --help to get started:

python snort.py --help
Here's an example run:

python snort.py 'regex(_|\s+)goes_?here$'
Note the single quotes ' surrounding the RegEx. These will usually protect it from shell expansion.

Note: Your regex needs to avoid matching unencrypted TINs, e.g. 123456789, as there are already appliances looking for these and we don't want to create duplicate alerts! To be clear, your regex can ONLY match VAPID-encrypted TINs!

Additional Note: TINs in this context refers exclusively to SSNs and ITINs. EINs/FEINs are for employers (companies), who can't gamble. PTINs are for tax preparers and also can't be associated with gambling winnings. ATINs are for children, who sadly can't legally gamble (yet).

### Solution
From the description given to us, the encryption algorithm takes the TINs and outputs the ciphertext based on the encryption key of `LUCKYLION`. A breakdown of what the algorithm does: 

1. If the provided `key` is a string, it's converted to its ASCII byte representation using `key.encode("ascii")`. This means each character in the key is transformed into its corresponding ASCII value in bytes.
2.  If `tin` is in bytes, it gets decoded back to a string using `tin.decode("ascii")`. This ensures that the function works with a string input.
3. The length of the key is calculated with `key_len = len(key)`
4. The function loops through each `character` and index `idx` in the input string `tin`:
    1. The int of each `character` in `tin` is added to each of the ascii value of each character in `key`
    2. The result is added to the `ciphertext` array in `ciphertext.append(int(character) + key[idx % key_len])`.
5. The ciphertext array is then converted to bytes.

Understanding how the algorithm works is crucial to solving the regex and finding the flag. Since each digit of TINs are from 0-9 and they are in the length of 9, then we know what the range of the each byte in the encryption would be:

L = 76. 76 + 9 = 85 = U

U = 85. 85 + 9 = 94 = ^

C = 67. 67 + 9 = 76 = L

K = 75. 75 + 9 = 84 = T

Y = 89. 89 + 9 = 98 = b

L = 76. 76 + 9 = 85 = U

I = 73. 73 + 9 = 82 = R

O = 79. 79 + 9 = 88 = X

N = 78. 78 + 9 = 87 = W

The regex is `[L-U][U-\^][C-L][K-T][Y-b][L-U][I-R][O-X][N-W]`

Run the command:
```bash
python snort.py '[L-U][U-\^][C-L][K-T][Y-b][L-U][I-R][O-X][N-W]'
```

Flag is `RegexRanger`