# D5.4: Identify compromised user

### Files: networklogs.csv

### Description
We have the IP address that we believe is responsible for submitting credentials to the threat actor's domain. Now, our networking team has provided us with some logs that will let us find the hosts and users associated with the traffic.

Given that in The Lucky Lion's environment, the logs are relatively small, it's easy to correlate our source.ip to the user and PC we want to look at.

If we recall our src_ip from the Suricata alert with the POST HTTP traffic to the phishing domain (10.15.38.78) , we see that our user and host are: host: WDIGCVY2S, user: bob_wctf24

However, in a larger incident, you may have to search through tens of thousands or more records. Let's see how we might enumerate logs in that case -

### Objectives
Can you write a simple query using bash that would quickly let you search for data associated with the IP we've identified? Submit that command as the flag. -Assume you are in the same directory as the file you are searching

### Solution
The query would be `awk -F',' '$6 == "10.15.38.78" {print $2, $3}' networklogs.csv`. Here is a break down of what the query is doing:
* The `awk` is a pattern scanning tool used to analyze text files.
* The `-F','` sets the field separator to a comma (,). It means that awk will treat each line in the input as being divided into fields by commas.
* `'$6 == "10.15.38.78"`: This is a condition that checks if the sixth field (`$6`) of the current line is equal to the IP address `10.15.38.78`
* `{print $2, $3}`: This is the action that will be performed if the condition is true. If the sixth field matches 10.15.38.78, it will print the second (`$2`) and third (`$3`) fields of that line, separated by a space by default.

Flag is `awk -F',' '$6 == "10.15.38.78" {print $2, $3}' networklogs.csv`